Describe a football weekend. When did the
activities begin and take me through a weekend?
Well, for those of us that didn't have dates, and
most of the time we didn't, you know, the same four
of us used to go to the ball games. We'd sit, you
know, wherever. But did you go to anything on
Friday night? We always had midnight yell
practice. Describe midnight yell practice.
Where did it occur? At the Grove. We went to the
Grove on Midnight Yale practice, and we already
were, we would stay around Friday night, and even
as upperclassmen, there weren't a whole lot of
places to go and do, unless you went to a movie or the
legal drinking age of 21, and so, you know, we
didn't, there wasn't the, I guess Uncle Ed's was
there and a couple other places, but number one, we
didn't have the money to go do that. Did, all right,
at the Grove, did y'all do the yells and the songs,
and were there fables? Absolutely. And the
moments when someone was speaking, I remember
when Bear Bryant spoke at one. I remember when
other, of course the Yell leaders would always
carry it, but I guess the one I remember the most was
when Bear Bryant spoke. But that was, of course we
also had during the week, if it was a away game on
Tuesday and Thursday night after mess hall, After
dinner, we would go to the Grove and have a Yale
practice on Tuesday and Thursday during football
season. Right after summer? Right after summer.
And then, of course, but not when it was a home game.
We didn't go on Thursday, which ended in a Yale
practice. And we would, you know, line up at the,
arm and arm to the Grove and the band, I guess the
band led it. I could be confused with what I see
today, but I'm sure they did. Yeah, of course, they
had to. We had all the songs, the normal songs that
we sang and everything else. So they were
sometimes, of course, you've got to make people
yell. And I guess they made us yell to break the
shyness of yelling like freshmen and posture. You
learn that at football games, too. But that's just
for the first two or three, and then pretty much
leave it alone. And once you get it and do it right,
nobody knows. Were there any Korean War veterans
that you remember much?
There were a lot of veterans, because the student
body was about half Corps, of the 7,000 plus,
7,500, 3,500. We had 3,000, 3,500.
strength core. My brother was back. See, Gus
returned to A&M mid-semester of my freshman year.
And he and I went to college together, even though
he was my older brother. Because when, see he was 15
when he graduated from high school. And then he
went to A&M. My dad didn't let him go off until He
stayed at Loretta Junior College for either a year
or a semester, I can't remember. Probably a
semester. And then when he was 16, he went up in Frog
Den. And he was, I guess, immature. And they asked
him to go home and grow up a little bit, and he joined
the Air Force. And after four years in the Air
Force, he got out right at my first semester
freshman, and he came back in. I saw a lot of the
veterans because my brother was a veteran. He
wasn't a Korean veteran, but he was a veteran. And
they were mainly quiet. They screwed the curves up
because they were serious about studying. Where
did they live? Puryear and Law and the non-core
dorms. They were also in one of the, let me see, it
was 14, 15, 16, and 18. Were you all aware of many
married veterans, many married students? They
were, and they were in the apartments that were
in... College View? Yeah, College View. There's
one over here and one over there. And the project
house is down south. Yeah, two different places.
And there were a lot of married students. And they
were serious students, and they pretty much...
What school? Describe... your routine in going to
and from home to College Station? How'd you get
there? Well, once Gus was there, when we went home,
Gus had a car. So hitchhiking days were over.
Describe hitchhiking, though. Hitchhiking?
Well, the line, you know, you go, even though...
Now where was the place, if you're coming in this
direction? Where did you get the...
The road that runs out through North, what is that?
21? Yeah, but you have to go 50-60 or 60-50. I never
could remember. Across the railroad tracks right
there, across the tracks on the street that runs in
front of the... You're talking about the Wellburn
Road? North Gate. All right. Okay. Going towards
21. Okay. And that's where the line was there. Of
course, there was a line on... going to Houston or
going to Dallas,
but I didn't have to hitchhike a whole lot. We
normally, there were a few people from the radio
that had cars, and then of course once dusk got
there, the only time I went home was either
Thanksgiving or Easter or something like that.
Did you ever have any bad experiences
hitchhiking? Well, I finished high school. I
hitchhiked to Chicago and worked that summer. I
worked two jobs. You and I would be petrified if one
of our children or grandchildren wanted to do
that. I turned 18 on the 17th of June, and on the 18th
I hitchhiked to Chicago. That's where I got the
money to go the first semester without work. He's
Dr. Alabama. Sylvia was a student there. She was a
student there my junior and senior, no, sophomore
freshman. See,
she finished high school a year after I did and
finished college a year before I did. Great. Now,
she's from Laredo? Yes. Right. How did you all
maintain contact? Letter writing. Letter
writing. Every day. Every day. Both directions?
Yeah. Do you remember, did she come to A&M for any
important events? Yes, she did. A football game
when I was a freshman. She enjoyed the TCU tornado,
or hurricane, whatever it was that went through
there. And she had new clothes on and new shoes, and
we just totally danced. That was as a freshman. She
came for my junior year, came to combat ball. From
Alabama. How did she get there? By train. From
Loretta, though, when she was a high school
senior, friends that were going up there, friends
of her family. Her mother wouldn't let her go. She
came from Alabama by train. Where did you meet the
train? Good question. Was it up in Iola, or was it
there on the West Gate at the college station?
Well, it must not have been a terribly difficult
time. It must have been easy for her. Where did she
stay?
She stayed with Tommy and Carolyn Lumpen when she
came as a junior. And when she came out of the
freshman, she only came twice. When she came out of
freshman, she had a cousin that lived there. It
was, again, in the apartments. Now, you all
didn't, by chance, get engaged or anything on an
A&M weekend? No. OK. See, I was going to ask you to
describe what you could if that had happened.
Let's see, did you take her to any boot dance or? I
took her to the combat ball when I was a freshman. I
mean, excuse me, a junior. Describe that weekend,
please.
Because a lot of activities and it was a show off
your girlfriends kind of a thing. And by that time,
a lot of our classmates had their girlfriends
there. And that's when we first started making
some of the friends that we still have. Where did
she stay? She stayed with Tommy again. And what did
one wear to the combat ball? You want to see a
picture? I've got one. No, just describe it. Well,
see, the combat ball, we wore fatigues, and we got
fatigued kind of dressed for our dates. But in the
military ball, they dress up in nice, we wore
the... or better uniforms, and then they wore the
lacy, I don't know how many undercoats,
petticoats kind of thing. Where were those dances
held? Sedesa. And was there a particular band that
played? Aggie Network. Okay. And how did people
behave themselves at those? Very well. It was,
they were fun occasions. And people got there on
time, and You know, maybe left towards the end of
it, but it was an event. Let's see. You didn't have a
car. When Gus was there, I had a useful car. You had a
useful car, but you didn't know him, right? He
finished, I was, the fifth year I was there, Gus
graduated that, when I should have, in 59, and then
I finished in 60. And I'll take it back to you, but
Gus finished in 58. And... So I didn't have a car the
last two years. Let's see. The president, when you
were there, was there? That's a guy that impressed
me. Huh? Earl Rutter. OK. Describe Earl Rutter.
OK. See, he was a charger. He was a charger. It was
his first year. Because he came there. He was
brought there. I think being groomed, as I now
understand, being groomed for president.
My roommate, John Thomas, and his daddy and Earl
Rudder were at Tarleton together. And of course,
we were the General Moore outfit our senior year.
We had the Corps. And so we got to see him a lot.
Because any visitors that came, he would bring
them over to our house. And he would go through our
place. And
he was just a dynamic. I didn't know him, I saw him a
lot, but we didn't have the relationship, maybe
some did, I did not, with the President, like
students do today. They probably were, I just
wasn't one of them. Did you all think that he was in
charge? You didn't have to think that, he let you
know. But I wish, talking about And I had the
beautiful good luck of being, working in the A&M
clubs after I came back from the service and got to
be around him a little bit in that capacity. But
I'll never forget, we had our 10-year reunion in
69, right before he died. He came to our reunion.
And he and his brother. And he went up to the podium
to speak. He takes off his jacket, his coat, he
takes off his tie, and he rolls his sleeves up. And I
wish I had a recording of that of what he, the talk
that he was capable of inspiring people. He was, he
was certainly, you know, a motivation to us. Let's
see, other... campus individuals. Lupo? Did you
ever deal with Lupo? We went in the store.
Everybody knew Lupo, and Lupo knew you whether he
did or not. I didn't spend that much money in the
store. I did buy books and stuff there. I knew him,
but I never... You didn't borrow money from him?
No. Because a lot of students did. What about
Pinky? We saw Pinky. Pinky was up, you know, later.
He was already later in years. What was his
function? I don't think he had an official
function other than being the campus greeter. He
was just there. Pinky was there. I don't believe he
had an official function. Describe the
community, the neighborhood around A&M. What was
at the North Gate? Lupo's, and there was a pool hall
up there on top of the corner drug store. We didn't
have time to play pool either. of course they had a
theater over there. Did y'all go often? A little
bit, not that often, not
that often. Of course the boot shop was there, and
there were a couple of other... Where'd you buy
your boots? I bought them from a Greek friend of
Paul Boinus', who lived in Houston, and those
boots in 58, 59 were probably already 25, 30 years
old. Did you sell them? Do you remember what you
paid for them? Probably around $50. And you didn't
pass them on? No, I kept them upstairs. Because
there are some people that have done both, haven't
they? Some keep them and some pass them on? Pass
them on. They were an older boot. They were
probably a little uncomfortable. I have a narrow
foot. They did fit. But at that time, for some
reason, we were dumb, it was, it was, you were
considered too core happy to wear your boots too
much. Where was Uncle Ed's?
Uncle Ed's was out on the... Welborn Road? By the
railroad? I thought it was out the other
direction. I don't know. Towards Whiskey Bridge.
Okay. Isn't that where it was? I don't know. It was
on this side of the river. It was in Brazos County.
I know we used to drive over to the other side of the
river to buy anything. That was to buy whiskey.
Uncle Ed used to beer. That's what I thought. Did
you know of any place in Brazos County where
anybody could have bought whiskey? Was there any
bootlegger? No. I've not heard of one. Were you all
aware of any house of ill repute in Brazos County?
I've not heard of one. No. All right. During your
day, what were the people drank what? What
alcohol? Beer and whiskey? Beer, maybe. I guess if
anybody was able to get a hold of whiskey, you'd see
some of that. Do you remember any stunts or
anything of anybody having beer or whiskey in
their rooms?
No. Beer didn't last long when we got it, but I don't
remember in our rooms. So you don't remember
anybody smuggling anybody back to the door? Beer
or body. No, no. Beer or whiskey. No. I imagine
there was some. Maybe the seniors who were of age.
We didn't. I'm not trying to sound pure. No, no. I
hear you. Let's see. Do you remember any special
off-campus national or international events
that kind of caught your attention? No. See, there
wasn't a Kennedy No, Kennedy assassination is
later. The Korean War is over. Eisenhower came
before that. I remember in 1959
we had Aggie Muster on the grass in front of the MSE
and
Congressman Teague was a speaker. And he talked
about the space program. He talked about the
importance of technology, where we were going as a
country. And it was all Star Wars to us at the time.
But he said what was going to happen. And it did
happen. And he helped make a lot of it happen. All
right, let's go back to Muster. Where was it held?
As far as you recall, was it always held at the
system building?
The other three years, up to my senior year, if I
recall, it was in front of the system building. As a
senior, we held it in front of the NSC. Oh, in front
of the NSC. And generally, the people who attended
Muster were? Students. Students. At that time,
yeah. Not many off-campus. As you heard the roll
call, did that do anything to your sensitivities,
your emotions? Those were the students that had
passed away during that year. The same honored as
Silver Taps. And Silver Taps was always a very
emotional ceremony. Why emotional? Well, I guess
We gave a lot of importance because I guess it was
important that we lost a classmate or an Aggie.
There weren't as many deaths, probably, as there
are now. They're just sheer numbers. But it was
such a solid thing. The campus was more organized
and controlled, whatever you want to call it. And
when the lights went out on the campus, they went
out. I mean, the campus was in total darkness. So we
all didn't Y'all didn't play any pranks? No, no,
absolutely not. Absolutely not. It was serious.
Nobody spoke, nobody talked. So I went back to your
room. If you did have to study, you covered, you put
blankets up, and it remained dark. But it was very,
very solid.
We'll look on the other side of the page now. In
terms of student excesses, people smoked what?
Cigarettes. It was a junior privilege to smoke a
pipe, so we tried that. Didn't like it either. Did
you all know about any other substances? Never saw
anything else smoked. Did you even know the term,
the words? You know, I grew up in Laredo, and I never
saw one there. I mean, you heard about it, you knew
about it, but in that time marijuana was a... You
heard of what? Marijuana. Okay, did you even know
the word cocaine? No. I would have been surprised
if you had said yes. Anything else? Speed or
anything else? No, no. It was a simpler era than
today. Let's see. Final
review your junior and senior year. Okay. We got
screwed out of our last, when the seniors, it
rained, it rained so hard we didn't have final
review when we were seniors. Well, as juniors,
That was in, that was May of 58. That
was really special because,
you see, Gus graduated that weekend.
Sylvia came up. Albert and Mary, my brother
Albert, he was, he was married. Mary came up. I'm
trying to think if Gus was already dating his
wife-to-be. I think my mother came up to that too.
No, I don't think she did. She came up to my
graduation. How serious were you and Sylvia then?
We'd been going together since I was a senior in
high school and she was a junior in high school. So
we'd been going together for a long time. So it's
pretty special. I
didn't know that one was ever made out. And it was
held on the drill field where they are today. Right
now, let's do commencement. Where were, describe
commencement and your feelings about it.
Exciting. You know, I guess I was, it was more than
just commencement. It was, even though See, I
graduated in May of 60, and
well, a lot of my class was still there, okay? In
fact, Wesley and Mike, and you see, Williams
finished in four and a half years, but Wesley,
Mike, and I, we were real close. We always worked
together. We all finished in May of 60, and so we
donned our uniforms, and of course, we had
commissioning that afternoon, but... they're
still the emotional, beautiful exercise that
still goes on today. Was either a speaker, either
commissioning, or commencement, was there
anybody that was unusual? You know, I'm not proud
of myself for not remembering, because I've been
to, as you well know, a zillion graduations.
school district here in San Antonio where I served
and then the A&M system. But you would have
remembered if it had been a governor or a
president, so you're telling me. I don't know. I
was so excited and so, you know,
it may have been a person of great importance and I
don't remember. I should ask when I'm off and when
I'm talking at okay
just a few more minutes and we're down to serious
what are the factors events or whatever that
contributes to Aggie spirit
What makes that? Everything around the Aggie
spirit, with me, revolved around the Corps of
Cadets, because that's where we learned it.
That's where we felt it. I think one of the most
important happenings as a freshman,
and I have a theory about that, is that first march
in. You can keep a freshman to that first march in,
and you feel your heart pounding. going around
that track, and you feel the beat. And I've seen
years when we don't have the ball game early, we
have a lot of freshmen in the quarter loss. But that
was an important event as far as feeling
something. All right. What are the other events
that help build that feeling that go to it?
Whenever one works with a group, and we were a group
as a unit, we had our special group in our class.
I've never had a lot of other experiences like that
where everybody gives something and be part of a
group or a unit or an effort or something with a
supposedly positive And, or means, even war is a,
I've not been in a war. I'm not, you know, I served in
the military, and I felt that Supreme Court there,
too. It has to do with that, I think, of belonging to
something that at the time is important. As you
were getting ready to leave the campus as a
graduate, did you have any feelings about whether
or not you were prepared for the real world? Did you
feel? I
would have to say I probably
didn't feel as prepared as I do today from the
standpoint of
just not feeling unprepared. I was confident I
could speak and I could do a lot of the things that
people have to know how to do to get along
professionally. But, you know, there's always
that question. And then, see, I graduated on a
Saturday morning, a commission Saturday
afternoon. I went to work Monday morning, break
with Zachary Kimberley. And I was troubled. I
didn't enjoy that year. I didn't enjoy it at all.
And I went to work for the service. It was like
playing again. And to me, work is play. If it's not
play, I don't want to do it. And I almost stayed in
the Army. I came so close to in the Army. But the
factor there was, and I guess I learned that at A&M,
saying thank you and not being afraid to talk to
somebody. I met Mr. Zachary while I was working at
the company. And when I left the company, right
before I was scheduled to leave and report to
service, I went to his office in the office of
transit tower building. and knocked on his door
and asked to see him and went and thanked him. It
wasn't his fault I didn't enjoy it. And he said,
well, Raul, when you come back, you come see me. And
to me, I said I had a job. And so I came back and he sent
me out to gym up more. And small construction and
development and get dirty kind of work. And that's
where I found what I was supposed to be doing. As you
look back on it, did A&M prepare you pretty well for
that? Oh, no question. Even, you know, I never
really used engineering as much as, say, my
brothers did. or as much as some of my other
colleagues, because I, you know, past it active, I
was maybe more, even though it's not an inactive
profession, but it wasn't what I needed to be
doing. But I worked with engineering all the time,
because I worked with engineers, with
architects, worked with all the same kinds of
things that we were prepared for and doing. I
certainly have the the confidence skills.
I learned,
you know, I learned, I listened, and I led while I
was at A&M. And then that taught me to lead, because
you come right back in as a freshman again, and you
woke up. So that's the other education that we talk
about and John told us to express so well. other
education or learning or learning laboratory or
leadership. All right now this is one question but
I may ask it three or four different ways. What
difference did it make in your life that you
attended A&M? What did being an Aggie what what is
all that what did it mean to you? Well
maybe I would have been a service oriented kind of a
person anyway. I don't know. But I think we were
instilled in us the
service to others. And frankly, that other
education probably served me better over the
years than the technical education that I got,
even though we We couldn't be in one place without
the other. And they both get you there. But
unfortunately, or fortunately, whatever one
wants to put it, everybody ends up with people and
with opportunities to make something happen. And
working with people, working with yourself
handling that made a lot of difference in my life.
And if I hadn't have gone to A&M, I probably
wouldn't have gotten a job with A.P. Zachary
Hemsworth. If I hadn't have gone to talk to Mr.
Zachary and say thank you, I wouldn't have gotten